Docs/Invocation of smart contracts (#931)
iotaledger/wasp: documentation/docs/guide/core_concepts/invocation.md

---
description: Smart contracts can call each other if they are deployed on the same chain. If you need to invoke a smart contract from outside of the chain, you need to make a smart contract request.
image: /img/logo/WASP_logo_dark.png
keywords:
- smart contracts
- requests
- on-ledger
- off-ledger
- calls
- invocation
- explanation
---

# Smart Contracts Invocation

> Just like any other computer program, a smart contract will lie dormant until someone or something would instruct it to activate. In case of smart contracts, the basic way to activate them is to call one of their [entry points](./smart-contract-anatomy.md#entry-points). It is the same as calling a program's function, and it will take a set of instructions of the smart contract and execute it over the current chain's state. View entry points can only read the state, and full entry points can both read and write to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Just like any other computer program, a smart contract will lie dormant until someone or something would instruct it to activate. In the case of smart contracts, the basic way to activate them is to call one of their [entry points](./smart-contract-anatomy.md#entry-points). It is the same as calling a program's function, and it will take a set of instructions of the smart contract and execute it over the current chain's state. View entry points can only read the state, and full entry points can both read and write to it.
```

When you make a request, the committee will either take it into work and execute the wrapped call fully, or it will reject the request with all its potential changes, never modifying the state only half-way through. This means that every single request is an *atomic operation*.

Smart contract calls are deterministic and synchronous, meaning that they always produce the same result and that all instructions are executed one immediately after another. By extension, if a smart contract calls another smart contract, the resulting set of instructions is also deterministic and synchronous, meaning that for a request it makes no difference if a smart contract's entry point contains the whole set of instructions or if it is composed of multiple smart contracts of the chain. Being able to combine smart contracts in this way is called *synchronous composability*.

## Requests

> A request contains a call to a smart contract and a signature of the sender (who is also the owner of the assets and funds that are going to be processed within the request). Unlike calls, requests are not executed immediately. Instead, they have to wait until the chain's validator nodes include them into a request batch. This means that requests unlike the calls have a delay and are executed in an unpredictable order, but they are subject to the protection mechanisms that allow ISC to function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A request contains a call to a smart contract and a signature of the sender (who is also the owner of the assets and funds that are going to be processed within the request). Unlike calls, requests are not executed immediately. Instead, they have to wait until the chain's validator nodes include them into a request batch. This means that requests, unlike the calls, have a delay and are executed in an unpredictable order, but they are subject to the protection mechanisms that allow ISC to function.
```

Author: I'd keep it as is is for the sake of pacing.

Requests are not only for humans — smart contracts can create requests too. You could request an execution of a smart contract that creates a request to, for example, a third-party decentralized exchange which would convert the user's funds from one currency to another and send them back through another request. This is called *asynchronous composability*.

### On-Ledger

An on-ledger request is a Layer 1 transaction that validator nodes retrieve from the Tangle. The Tangle acts as an arbiter between users and chains and guarantees that the transaction is valid, making it the only way to transfer assets to a chain or between the chains, albeit it is the slowest way to invoke a smart contract.

### Off-Ledger

> If you have all necessary assets on a chain already, you can send a request directly to that chain's validator nodes. This way you don't have to wait for the Tangle to process the message, which makes the overall confirmation time much, much shorter. Due to the shorter delay, you should prefer sending off-ledger requests over on-ledger requests, unless you have to move assets between chains or Layer 1 accounts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have all necessary assets on a chain already, you can send a request directly to that chain's validator nodes. This way you do not have to wait for the Tangle to process the message, which makes the overall confirmation time much, much shorter. Due to the shorter delay, you should prefer sending off-ledger requests over on-ledger requests, unless you have to move assets between chains or Layer 1 accounts.
```

---
description: Smart contracts can call each other if they are deployed on the same chain. If you need to invoke a smart contract from outside of the chain, you need to make a smart contract request.
image: /img/logo/WASP_logo_dark.png
keywords:
- smart contracts
- requests
- on-ledger
- off-ledger
- calls
- invocation
- explanation
---

# Smart Contracts Invocation

> Just like any other computer program, a smart contract will lie dormant until someone or something would instruct it to activate. It could be a call, or it could a request — the exact same kind of request that we have talked about in the [Consensus](./consensus.md) article.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Just like any other computer program, a smart contract will lie dormant until someone or something would trigger an activation. It could be a call, or it could a request — the exact same kind of request that we have talked about in the [Consensus](./consensus.md) article.
```

Reviewer: Or something. Just a suggestion

## Calls

> As one function could call another function within the same program, two smart contracts can call each other as long as they are deployed on the same chain. Just like you would avoid code duplication in a conventional program, you could refer to the same instruction instead of copying it over every time you need it in another smart contract.

Reviewer 2: >two smart contracts can call each other as long as they are deployed on the same chain.
2 SCs living on different chains can call each other (call entrypoints or send funds), but they cannot get a response back.

Reviewer 2: >Just like you would avoid code duplication in a conventional program, you could refer to the same instruction instead of copying it over every time you need it in another smart contract.

This is true, but not the reason SCs are a good thing, I would remove this point.

Author: > 2 SCs living on different chains can call each other (call entrypoints or send funds), but they cannot get a response back.

How does it work? I thought you need a request to send funds.

Author: Yes, but I am talking about direct calls here, not calls wrapped into requests. Is the paragraph not clear enough about this?

Reviewer 2: >two smart contracts can call each other as long as they are deployed on the same chain
this is misleading IMO

> Calls cannot refer to an arbitrary line of code and must instead point to one of the entry point that the target contract has defined. A full entry point can both read and write to the chain's state and a view entry point can only read it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Calls to a smart contract must specify to one of the entry point that the target contract has defined. A full entry point can both read and write to the chain's state and a view entry point can only read it.
```

> Calls cannot refer to an arbitrary line of code and must instead point to one of the entry point that the target contract has defined. A full entry point can both read and write to the chain's state and a view entry point can only read it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Calls cannot refer to an arbitrary line of code and must instead point to one of the entry points that the target contract has defined. A full entry point can both read and write to the chain's state and a view entry point can only read it.
```

> You cannot call full entry points directly from outside of the chain, as otherwise you would bypass all protective features of ISC. Instead, you have to make a request to a smart contract which could call other smart contracts which could in turn call even more smart contracts — as long as they all reside in the same chain. It means that all changes from all calls will happen within the scope of processing that single request, and, by extension, within the scope of a single state update. If a request gets rejected, it gets rejected in its entirety, together with all calls it was supposed to trigger. Being able to form such complex yet atomic operation is called *synchronous composability*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To interact with a smart contract you have to make a request and send it to a node (either via the tangle on-ledger, or via the ISC webapi), these requests are signed and cryptographically identify the caller. 
This smart contract can call other smart contracts which could in turn call even more smart contracts.
It means that all changes from all calls will happen within the scope of processing that single request, and, by extension, within the scope of a single state update. If a request gets rejected, it gets rejected in its entirety, together with all calls it was supposed to trigger. Being able to form such complex yet atomic operation is called *synchronous composability*.
```

> You cannot call full entry points directly from outside of the chain, as otherwise you would bypass all protective features of ISC. Instead, you have to make a request to a smart contract which could call other smart contracts which could in turn call even more smart contracts — as long as they all reside in the same chain. It means that all changes from all calls will happen within the scope of processing that single request, and, by extension, within the scope of a single state update. If a request gets rejected, it gets rejected in its entirety, together with all calls it was supposed to trigger. Being able to form such complex yet atomic operation is called *synchronous composability*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You cannot call full entry points directly from outside of the chain, as otherwise you would bypass all protective features of ISC. Instead, you have to make a request to a smart contract which could call other smart contracts which could in turn call even more smart contracts — as long as they all reside in the same chain. It means that all changes from all calls will happen within the scope of processing that single request, and, by extension, within the scope of a single state update. If a request gets rejected, it gets rejected in its entirety, together with all calls it was supposed to trigger. Being able to form such a complex, yet atomic operation is called *synchronous composability*.
```

> Calls to view entry points are a bit different. Unlike full entry point, view entry points cannot modify the chain's state, so there is no harm in letting their calls bypass the normal ISC protection. You can call them at any time both from within and without of the chain to observe its state: for example, you could have a website that would display your chain's status and metrics.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Calls to view entry points are a bit different. Unlike full entry points, view entry points cannot modify the chain's state. You can call them from within the chain smart contract execution, or as an outside actor via the ISC node webapi, to observe its state: for example, you could have a website that would display any information that a smart contract makes available via "view entry points".
```

## Requests

> A request contains a call to a smart contract and a signature of the sender (who is also the owner of the assets that are going to be processed within the request). Unlike calls, requests are not executed immediately. Instead, they have to wait until the chain's validator nodes include them into a request batch. This means that requests unlike the calls have a delay and are executed in an unpredictable order, but they are subject to the protection mechanisms that allow ISC to function.

Reviewer 2: also worth mentioning that requests can also contain funds and allowance of those funds

> A request contains a call to a smart contract and a signature of the sender (who is also the owner of the assets that are going to be processed within the request). Unlike calls, requests are not executed immediately. Instead, they have to wait until the chain's validator nodes include them into a request batch. This means that requests unlike the calls have a delay and are executed in an unpredictable order, but they are subject to the protection mechanisms that allow ISC to function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A request contains a call to a smart contract and a signature of the sender (who is also the owner of the assets that are going to be processed within the request). Unlike calls, requests are not executed immediately. Instead, they have to wait until the chain's validator nodes include them into a request batch. This means that requests, unlike the calls, have a delay and are executed in an unpredictable order, but they are subject to the protection mechanisms that allow ISC to function.
```

Author: I'd keep it without comma for the pacing reasons.

Requests are not only for humans — smart contracts can create requests too. You could request an execution of a smart contract that creates a request to, for example, a third-party decentralized exchange which would convert the user's funds from one currency to another and send them back through another request. This is called *asynchronous composability*.

### On-Ledger

> An on-ledger request is a Layer 1 transaction that validator nodes retrieve from the Tangle. The Tangle acts as an arbiter between users and chains and guarantees that the transaction is valid, making it the only secure way to transfer assets to a chain or between the chains, albeit it is the slowest way to invoke a smart contract.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An on-ledger request is a Layer 1 transaction that validator nodes retrieve from the Tangle. The Tangle acts as an arbiter between users and chains and guarantees that the transaction is valid, making it the only way to transfer assets to a chain or between the chains, albeit it is the slowest way to invoke a smart contract.
```

### Off-Ledger

> If you have all necessary assets on a chain already, you can send a request directly to that chain's validator nodes. They will include it in their batch proposals directly, bypassing the Tangle delays. This makes off-ledger requests hundreds and thousands times faster than on-ledger requests.

Reviewer 2: >you can send a request directly to that chain's validator nodes. They will include it in their batch proposals directly, bypassing the Tangle delays.

I think there is a confusion here about what the "batch proposal" actually is, it has nothing to do with the tangle - its a process that committee nodes use to agree on a set of requests to execute by exchanging messages with each other

Reviewer 2: the thing that makes off-ledger requests much faster is that they don't need to wait on the L1 to be confirmed, and then acknowledged by the nodes.
